FOCUS #157: Discount Handling attribute (#229)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/attributes/discount_handling.md

# Discount Handling

> A discount is a type of pricing model in which cloud providers offer their customers a reduced price that is applied to the usage of the cloud provider’s services. There are many types of discounts that a cloud provider can support, including but not limited to commercially negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts that offer lower prices when you agree to a certain amount of their services or spend, and bundled discounts where you receive free or discounted usage of one product or service based on the usage of another product or service. Discount handling is commonly used in scenarios for verifying discounts were applied and calculating cost savings.

Reviewer: Should we avoid "pricing model" given there's another column or did you want to reference that intentionally? Also generalizing to support discounts for purchases and suggesting a few ways to shorten this a bit...
```suggestion
A discount is a pricing construct where providers offer a reduced price for services. Providers may have many types of discounts, including but not limited to commercially negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts when you agree to a certain amount of usage or spend, and bundled discounts where you receive free or discounted usage of one product or service based on the usage of another. Discount Handling is commonly used in scenarios like verifying discounts were applied and calculating cost savings.
```

> Some of the discount offers can be purchased from a provider in order to get reduced prices. The most common example of this is commitment-based discounts, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused. This can result in effectively lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level to enable FinOps scenarios. In order to facilitate this, the amount of a purchased discount is amortized over the term that the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year). Amortization is a process used to break down and spread the purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each hour of billing. Amortization provides a method for FinOps practitioners to reallocate purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of their cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback of the purchase amount.

Reviewer: Simplifying a tad to shorten it...
```suggestion
Some discount offers can be purchased from a provider to get reduced prices. The most common example is commitment-based discounts, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused, which results in lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level. To facilitate this, the purchase amount is amortized over the term the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year). Amortization is a process used to break down and spread purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each hour of billing. Amortization enables FinOps practitioners to distribute purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback for the purchase amount.
```

Reviewer: Updated my suggestion above to merge in @rodneyjoyce's comment about using "unit" instead of "hour".

> While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row or charge. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Adjustment Type. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row or charge. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Charge Subcategory. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.
```

> 

Reviewer: We need a normative paragraph with the core MUST/SHOULD statements...
```suggestion

All rows defined in FOCUS MUST follow the discount handling requirements listed below.

```

Discount Handling

## Description

Indicates how to include and apply discounts to usage charges or rows. 

## Requirements

* All applicable discounts MUST be applied to each row they pertain to and MUST NOT be negated in a separate row.
* All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge. 
  * If a discount only applies to a subset of the charge, then that portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row. One with the discount and one without.
  * If multiple discounts apply, there MUST be separate rows for each unique combination of applied discounts or undiscounted amount.
  * Each discount MUST be identifiable using existing FOCUS columns. 
    * Discounts applied to charges/rows from a commitment-based discount MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.
    * If a provider applies a discount that cannot be represented by a FOCUS column, they SHOULD include additional columns to identify the source of the discount.
* Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST specify CommitmentUtilization on the usage rows that received the reduced rates from the discount. 
* Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST be amortized.

>   * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for the discounted portion of the charge and the EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the purchase cost that applies to this row.

Reviewer 3: EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the purchase
Change to
EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the amortized

Reviewer: Also adding a caveat in case the commitment only discounts a part of the cost and not the full cost.
```suggestion
  * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any row where the commitment covers the entire cost for the charge period.
  * The EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the amortized purchase cost that applies to this row.
```

  * CommitmentUtilization MUST be "Used" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.

>   * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. CommitmentUtilization MUST be "Not Used".

Reviewer 3: If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. CommitmentUtilization MUST be "Not Used".
Should this be worded to align to other columns where we say Commitment Unused

Reviewer: Good catch! Applying suggestion...
```suggestion
  * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. Charge Subcategory MUST be "Commitment Unused".
```

>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Used" and "Not Used" rows for each CommitmentDiscountId MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Commitment Used" and "Commitment Unused" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.
```

> * Credits that are applied after the fact MUST use a ChargeType of "Adjustment" and AdjustmentCategory of "Credit".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Credits that are applied after the fact MUST use a ChargeType of "Adjustment" and ChargeSubcategory of "Credit".
```

# Discount Handling

A discount is a type of pricing model in which cloud providers offer their customers a reduced price that is applied to the usage of the cloud provider’s services. There are many types of discounts that a cloud provider can support, including but not limited to commercially negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts that offer lower prices when you agree to a certain amount of their services or spend, and bundled discounts where you receive free or discounted usage of one product or service based on the usage of another product or service. Discount handling is commonly used in scenarios for verifying discounts were applied and calculating cost savings.

> Some of the discount offers can be purchased from a provider in order to get reduced prices. The most common example of this is commitment-based discounts, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused. This can result in effectively lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level to enable FinOps scenarios. In order to facilitate this, the amount of a purchased discount is amortized over the term that the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year). Amortization is a process used to break down and spread the purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each hour of billing. Amortization provides a method for FinOps practitioners to reallocate purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of their cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback of the purchase amount.

Reviewer 4: > When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each hour of billing.

I would propose to refine "resource" into "resource usage", everywhere it's not done already.

Original comment: https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/229#discussion_r1368252300

While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row or charge. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Charge Subcategory. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.

All rows defined in FOCUS MUST follow the discount handling requirements listed below.

## Attribute ID

DiscountHandling

## Attribute name

Discount Handling

## Description

> Indicates how to include and apply discounts to usage charges or rows. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indicates how to include and apply discounts to usage charges or rows.
```
For build errors.

## Requirements

* All applicable discounts MUST be applied to each row they pertain to and MUST NOT be negated in a separate row.

> * All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge. 

Reviewer 4: I believe this relates to the SKU Price ID, which applies to the entire charge.
Maybe we could state that the applied discount, if any, must be reflected in the SKU price, which is identified by the SKU Price ID.

Author: resolving as this is for the initial pr

> * All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge.
```
For build errors.

  * If a discount only applies to a subset of the charge, then that portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row. One with the discount and one without.
  * If multiple discounts apply, there MUST be separate rows for each unique combination of applied discounts or undiscounted amount.

>   * Each discount MUST be identifiable using existing FOCUS columns. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Each discount MUST be identifiable using existing FOCUS columns.
```
For build errors.

    * Discounts applied to charges/rows from a commitment-based discount MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.

>     * If a provider applies a discount that cannot be represented by a FOCUS column, they SHOULD include additional columns to identify the source of the discount.

Reviewer 4: I was asking myself how the organization discount is represented in FOCUS.
I understand it's represented by the Billing Account ID/Name: the Negotiated Cost SHOULD represents a discount of the List Cost that is related to the Billing Account ID/Name or a parent entity (eg SCE in Azure). Correct?

Author: I was planning on linking to NegotiatedCost doc, once I get the link to it.

Reviewer: There's a risk this may not land in time. Let's see which one lands first and we can easily add the link in either PR.

>     * If a provider applies a discount that cannot be represented by a FOCUS column, they SHOULD include additional columns to identify the source of the discount.

Reviewer 2: Do we consider spot instance usage as a form of discount? For GCP SUD, we could consider the discount row as a General Adjustment -> Credit type but spot usage is associated with a resource but with a discounted price; and no CommitmentDiscountId. Or we just consider it as a normal Usage row but with a different (lower) price list, meaning, not discounted?

> If a provider applies a discount that cannot be represented by a FOCUS column, they SHOULD include additional columns to identify the source of the discount.
I was thinking that spot instance usages would fall under this provision but this line seems a bit open-ended. Specifically the "additional columns" part, which could potentially be handled post v1.0?

Reviewer 4: IMHO, spot is not strictly a discount, because spot instances have a different SLA than regular instances: their usage can be interrupted. I see more spot as "low-cost" than "discount".

Author: yeah, I'd view spot as a lower cost vm.

Reviewer 5: I feel like it's a bit unclear what we're asking providers to do. Are we saying additional provider-defined columns should be included to identify the discount details?

> * Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST specify CommitmentUtilization on the usage rows that received the reduced rates from the discount. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST specify CommitmentUtilization on the usage rows that received the reduced rates from the discount.
```
For build errors.

# Discount Handling

A discount is a pricing construct where providers offer a reduced price for services. Providers may have many types of discounts, including but not limited to commercially negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts when you agree to a certain amount of usage or spend, and bundled discounts where you receive free or discounted usage of one product or service based on the usage of another. Discount Handling is commonly used in scenarios like verifying discounts were applied and calculating cost savings.

> Some discount offers can be purchased from a provider to get reduced prices. The most common example is commitment-based discounts, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused, which results in lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level. To facilitate this, the purchase amount is amortized over the term the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year). Amortization is a process used to break down and spread purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each unit of billing. Amortization enables FinOps practitioners to distribute purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback for the purchase amount.

Reviewer 6: softened FinOps practitioner to user of billing data, is that spicy?

FOCUS is for everyone, not just people who are finops certified or whose orgs use finops.

```suggestion
Some discount offers can be purchased from a provider to get reduced prices. The most common example is a commitment-based discount, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused, which results in lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level. To facilitate this, the purchase amount is amortized over the term the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year).

Amortization is a process used to break down and spread purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each unit of billing. Amortization enables users of billing data to distribute purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback for the purchase amount.
```

# Discount Handling

A discount is a pricing construct where providers offer a reduced price for services. Providers may have many types of discounts, including but not limited to commercially negotiated discounts, commitment-based discounts when you agree to a certain amount of usage or spend, and bundled discounts where you receive free or discounted usage of one product or service based on the usage of another. Discount Handling is commonly used in scenarios like verifying discounts were applied and calculating cost savings.

> Some discount offers can be purchased from a provider to get reduced prices. The most common example is a commitment-based discount, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. There are instances where a portion of the purchased discount may go unused, which results in lost savings and needs to be clearly identifiable at a granular level. To facilitate this, the purchase amount is amortized over the term the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year).

Reviewer 5: I feel like this implies that the reason to amortize is to find the unused portion of a commitment discount which I've not seen in the past. It was more to get a view of cost without the periodic spikes so that the spend is spread based on the period the purchase applies for - which gives you a more accurate view of your spend regardless of the period you're analyzing spend for (allows you to do things like budgeting and forecasting more easily since it's accounting for purchases that were made a long time ago that you're still receiving the benefit of). 

I'm sure @kk09v would have a better accounting / finance explanation that might make sense to list here as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some discount offers can be purchased from a provider to get reduced prices. The most common example is a commitment-based discount, where you "purchase" a commitment to use or spend a specific amount within a period. When a commitment isn't fully utilized, the unused amount reduces the potential savings from the discount and can even result in paying higher costs than without the discount. Due to this risk, unused commitment amounts need to be clearly identifiable at a granular level. To facilitate this, unused commitments are recorded with a separate row for each charge period where the commitment was not fully utilized. In order to show the impact of purchased discounts on each discounted row, discount purchases need the purchase amount the be amortized over the term the discount is applied to (e.g., 1 year) with each charge period split and applied to each row that received the discount.
```

Amortization is a process used to break down and spread purchase costs over a period of time or term of use. When a purchase is applicable to resources, like commitment-based discounts, the amortized cost of a resource takes the initial payment and term into account and distributes it out based on the resource's usage, attributing the prorated cost for each unit of billing. Amortization enables users of billing data to distribute purchase charges to the appropriate audience in support of cost allocation efforts. Discount Handling for purchased commitments is commonly used for scenarios like calculating utilization and implementing chargeback for the purchase amount.

> While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Charge Subcategory. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.

Reviewer 5: Not sure I understand what the Credit here is. What are some use cases for this? Are we talking about tiered pricing (last sentence sort of hints at that) or things like sustained use discounts in GCP?

Reviewer: This is trying to cover SUDs without calling it out by name.

Reviewer 4: I believe the point is GCP SUDs are applied globally, with no detail per resource.
That's why there is a need for a separate charge/row.
Maybe this could be added to the text to help for the udnerstanding.

Reviewer: Added to supplemental data.

> While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row or charge. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Charge Subcategory. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While providers may use different terms to describe discounts, FOCUS identifies a discount as being a reduced price applied directly to a row. Any price or cost reductions that are awarded after the fact are identified as a "Credit" Charge Subcategory. One example might be when a provider offers a reduced rate after passing a certain threshold of usage or spend.
```

All rows defined in FOCUS MUST follow the discount handling requirements listed below.

## Attribute ID

DiscountHandling

## Attribute name

Discount Handling

## Description

Indicates how to include and apply discounts to usage charges or rows.

## Requirements

> * All applicable discounts MUST be applied to each row they pertain to and MUST NOT be negated in a separate row.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* All applicable discounts SHOULD be applied to each row they pertain to and SHOULD NOT be negated in a separate row.
```

Just thinking through the adoption curve here, there are some CSPs that lean heavily on negation lines today, can we discourage the use of negation lines now and look towards moving this to a stronger stance in a later release?

* All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge.
  * If a discount only applies to a subset of the charge, then that portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row. One with the discount and one without.

>   * If multiple discounts apply, there MUST be separate rows for each unique combination of applied discounts or undiscounted amount.

Reviewer 8: I am not sure how this would work? Say their is a commitment based discount and a general percentage discount.....how is bullet number one and bullet number 4 adhered to?

Reviewer 4: I believe:
- If the commitment-based discount and the general discount are combined together, they should apply to every row.
- If the general discount is applied after the fact based on some overall criteria like total cost exceeding a threshold, then the general discount should appear as a credit

Reviewer: That's correct. Let me give a different example:
Let's say you have a 10% negotiated discount (A), a 10% bundled discount (B), and a $1/hour spend commitment purchased for $0.50/hour (C). For the sake of this example, let's say the negotiated and bundled discounts cap out and don't apply to all resources so I can show what happens with a partially undiscounted amount. All examples are $0.05/minute for hourly data...

| Scenario | Resource | Discounts | Quantity | ListCost | OnDemandCost | BilledCost | EffectiveCost |
|-----------|-------|------------|------|----|---------|------------|----------------|
| No discounts | Foo0 |  | 60 | $3.00 | $3.00 | $3.00 | $3.00 |
| Negotiated only | Foo1 | A | 60 | $3.00 | $2.70 | $2.70 | $2.70 |
| Commitment only | Foo2 | C | 20 | $1.00 | $1.00 | $0.00 | $0.50 |
| Uncommitted part | Foo2 |    | 40 | $2.00 | $2.00 | $2.00 | $2.00 |
| Commitment only | Foo3 | C | 10 | $0.50 | $0.50 | $0.00 | $0.25 |
| Unused commitment |     | C | 10 | $0.50 | $0.50 | $0.00 | $0,25 |
| Negotiated&nbsp;+&nbsp;committed | Foo4 | A+C | 22.222 | $1.11 | $1.00 | $0.00 | $0.50 |
| Negotiated&nbsp;+&nbsp;uncommitted | Foo4 | A | 37.778 | $1.89 | $1.70 | $1.70 | $1.70 |
| All discounts<sup>1</sup> | Foo5 | A+B+C | 24.691 | $1.11 | $1.00 | $0.00 | $0.50 |
| Negotiated&nbsp;+&nbsp;bundled | Foo5 | A+B | 5.309 | $0.24 | $2.15 | $2.15 | $2.15 |
| Negotiated only | Foo5 | A | 15 | $0.75 | $0.675 | $0.675 | $0.675 |
| All discounts capped out | Foo5 |  | 15 | $0.75 | $0.75 | $0.75 | $0.75 |

<sup>_* As we've defined SKUs, bundled discounts would be applied to the list price, so that's why it doesn't look like there's a discount applied compared to Foo4._</sup>

Reviewer 4: That's great example to explain how commitment-related charges work.
If it's planned to have illustrative examples in FOCUS, it's a must-have there!

Reviewer: I'll add this to supporting content for now. I like the idea of figuring out the best way to be more explicit with examples in the main spec. We should think about that after this release.

> * All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge.
```

  * Each discount MUST be identifiable using existing FOCUS columns.

>     * Discounts applied to charges/rows from a commitment-based discount MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Discounts applied to rows from a commitment-based discount MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.
```

>   * If a discount only applies to a subset of the charge, then that portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row. One with the discount and one without.

Reviewer 5: Not sure if clearer. Ignore if not.
```suggestion
  * If a discount only applies to a portion of a charge, then that portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row while the standard priced portion should be kept in it's own row.
```

Reviewer 9: Made an edit for even more clarity^ 

> then the discounted

>     * If a provider applies a discount that cannot be represented by a FOCUS column, they SHOULD include additional columns to identify the source of the discount.

Reviewer 5: Not sure this is clear. What's an example? We don't today have a general discount type or id or anything right?

Reviewer: This was about nudging them to make sure they explain discounts. We don't have it in FOCUS columns, but we're asking them to have it in theirs. Goal would be to cover this in FOCUS columns in a future release.

>   * If multiple discounts apply, there MUST be separate rows for each unique combination of applied discounts or undiscounted amount.

Reviewer 5: Technically, this is for non-negotiated discounts? Negotiated discounts aren't going to split out rows.

Reviewer: This also applies to negotiated discounts. I left an example in comments. I'll pull that into the supporting content. Specifically, for negotiated discounts, they generally apply to all charges or a specific set of charges. They're generally applicable to the entire charge which is all this is asking for. The only issue would be if a negotiated discount only applied to a portion of a charge. In that case, we'd need to split the charge into 2 rows. One with the negotiated discount and one without it. This isn't specific to negotiated discounts. This applies to all discounts.

Author: yes, this is focused on non-negotiated discounts.

Author: closing this out, will open if need more data

> * All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge.
>   * If a discount only applies to a portion of a charge, then the discounted portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row while the standard priced portion should be kept in it's own row.
>   * If multiple discounts apply, there MUST be separate rows for each unique combination of applied discounts or undiscounted amount.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* All discounts applied to a row MUST apply to the entire charge. 
  * Multiple discounts MAY apply to a row, but they MUST apply to the entire charge covered by that row.
  * If a discount only applies to a portion of a charge, then the discounted portion of the charge MUST be split into a separate row.
```

Suggestion to help clarify the splitting of lines isn't due to multiple discounts, but the differing portion of application of discounts. So multiple discounts can apply to a single row as long as they all apply to the total charge. If they differ (e.g. One discount (A) applies to the whole charge but the other discount (B) only to half then break into two rows, one with both A and B and the other with just A)

>     * Discounts applied to rows from a commitment-based discount MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.

Reviewer 5: Not sure if clearer. Ignore if not.
```suggestion
    * Rows with a commitment-based discount applied to it MUST include a CommitmentDiscountId.
```

> * ChargeSubCategory MUST NOT be null for rows where ChargeType is "Usage" and the row received reduced rates from a discount. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ChargeSubCategory MUST NOT be null for rows where ChargeType is "Usage" and the row received reduced rates from a discount.
```

> * Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST specify ChargeSubcategory on the usage rows that received the reduced rates from the discount.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* ChargeSubCategory MUST NOT be null for rows where ChargeType is "Usage" and the row received reduced rates from a discount. 
```

Reviewer 9: MUST condition on "Purchased discounts" sound a little funny

> * Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST specify CommitmentUtilization on the usage rows that received the reduced rates from the discount.

Reviewer 5: I think VS2 decided to do away with CommitmentUtilization and instead has similar values in ChargeSubcategory

* Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST be amortized.
  * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any row where the commitment covers the entire cost for the charge period.

>   * The EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the amortized purchase cost that applies to this row.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * The EffectiveCost MUST include the portion of the amortized purchase cost that applies to this row.
```

Currently reads like EffectiveCost must equal the amortised amount, which is not correct if there includes charges on the row itself.

>   * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any row where the commitment covers the entire cost for the charge period.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any ChargeType 'Usage' row where the commitment covers the entire cost for the charge period.
```

>   * ChargeSubcategory MUST be "Used" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * ChargeSubcategory MUST be "Used Commitment" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.
```

>   * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. Charge Subcategory MUST be "Commitment Unused".
>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Commitment Used" and "Commitment Unused" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. Charge Subcategory MUST be "Commitment Not Used".
  * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Commitment Used" and "Commitment Not Used" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.
```

>   * CommitmentUtilization MUST be "Used" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.

Reviewer 5: CommitmentUtilization doesn't exist. Use ChargeSubcategory instead.

> * Credits that are applied after the fact MUST use a ChargeType of "Adjustment" and ChargeSubcategory of "Credit".

Reviewer 6: should negotiated cost be mentioned or link to around here?

Author: I couldn't find the NegotiatedCost doc. Happy to link to it, but couldn't seem to find it. Resolving this PR, and I'll add the link to it at a later date.

>   * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. Charge Subcategory MUST be "Commitment Not Used".

Reviewer 5: I think 'that charge period' is vague. I think what you want to say is for each charge period at the lowest granularity supported by the dataset?
```suggestion
  * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. ChargeSubcategory MUST be "Unused Commitment".
```

>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Commitment Used" and "Commitment Not Used" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer 5: This won't work. I see a few issues:
- First, I think you mean to say the sum of Used and Unused for the duration of the commitment should equal the billed cost of the purchase.
- The above statement would be true for all up-front paid RIs. In the case of partial and no up-front RIs, the effective cost would be the amortized portion + on-going rate you pay? So the sum will not equal the purchase
- In cases like partial or no up-front, are we suggesting there is a need for a single row that represents the 'purchase' record in each lowest-granularity charge period?

```suggestion
  * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Used Commitment" and "Unused Commitment" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.
```

> * Purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST be amortized.
>   * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any row where the commitment covers the entire cost for the charge period.
>   * The EffectiveCost MUST be the portion of the amortized purchase cost that applies to this row.
>   * CommitmentUtilization MUST be "Used" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.
>   * If a commitment is not fully utilized, the provider MUST include a row that represents the unused portion of the commitment for that charge period. Charge Subcategory MUST be "Commitment Not Used".
>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Commitment Used" and "Commitment Not Used" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer 9: I think some of the confusion is coming from lines 36-40 not at low-enough level to indicate: 
> how to include and apply discounts to usage charges or rows

```suggestion
* Prepaid portions of purchased discounts (e.g., commitment-based discounts) MUST be amortized.
  * The BilledCost MUST be 0 for any row where ChargeType is "Usage" and the commitment applies to the entire charge for the charge period.
  * The EffectiveCost MUST include the portion of the amortized purchase cost proportional to the Pricing Unit and the time granularity of the charge, for any row that received a reduced price from a commitment.
  * ChargeSubcategory MUST be "Used Commitment" for rows that received a reduced price from that commitment.
  * The provider MUST include a row that represents unused portions of a commitment based on the time granularity of the dataset. ChargeSubcategory MUST be "Unused Commitment" for these rows.
```

I removed my draft of line 40 because ChargeSubCategory does not support "Purchase" yet.
>* The sum of BilledCost for all rows where ChargeSubcategory is "Used Commitment" or "Unused Commitment" MUST equal the value committed by all commitments within the time granularity of the dataset.

>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Used Commitment" and "Unused Commitment" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer 8: This is not true in the case of upfront or partial upfront commitment based discounts.

Reviewer 7: I think this means the total `EffectiveCost` across the *whole term of the commitment* should match the SUM of the BilledCost.

Reviewer: @rileyjenk, take a look at the updates.

>   * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Used Commitment" and "Unused Commitment" rows for each ChargeSubcategory MUST be the same as the BilledCost of the commitment-based discount purchase.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * The sum of the EffectiveCost for all "Used Commitment" and "Unused Commitment" rows for each CommitmentDiscountId over the entire duration of the commitment MUST be the same as the total BilledCost of the commitment-based discount.
```

Suggestion to clarify the total amount you pay in EffectiveCost where the discount is applied (or unused) should total the amount you are billed for the commitment purchase.
